# Saturday Class
Don't over React

## 1st activity - Stateful Components
to start this activity i'm doing a new react practice app for the week
`LiveApp/reactmore` folder opened in terminal `create-react-app reactmore`
as we go through the week i'll save the source files so I can review them but i'll copy into liveapp to work on them. 
the process takes about 8 minutes to create the app on my laptop
once you start using `yarn` you can't go back and forth between `npm` 
when you console log an event you can jump to the real information and go
`console.log(event.target)` event has a lot of prototypes that will log if not.
```js
 state = {
    username: "",
    password: ""
  };
  handleChange = event => {
    console.log(event.target);
    const {name, value} = event.target;
    this.setState({
      [name]: value
    });
  };
  handleFormSubmit = event => {
    event.preventDefault();
    this.setState({
      username: "",
      password: ""
    });
  };
```
The above creates a loop where as the client inputs data it populates to the dom, pretty cool. 
definitely `react`ive.

for whatever reason ES6 wasn't working right for me and this alert string containing objects broke
`alert(`Username: ${this.state.username}\nPassword: ${this.state.password}`);`

##02 Activity Two
This involves api calls and populating content to the DOM.
React using utils folder within src like components
`app/src/components` or `app/src/utils` these utils are loaded before the load to the virtualDOM.
Biggest thing I learned was how to run a script inside of the `return()` 
```js
{this.state.result.Title ? (
                <MovieDetail
                  title={this.state.result.Title}
                  src={this.state.result.Poster}
                  director={this.state.result.Director}
                  genre={this.state.result.Genre}
                  released={this.state.result.Released}
                />
              ) : (
                <h3>No Results to Display</h3>
)}
```
By bracketing inside of the return you can pass some more logic through the script.
This allows embeded if statemtents and default fallbacks to be called at the final part of the app instead of further back, though I'm sure you could implement it further back as well.

## 3 Multiple Pages operating on a a single page
Since react processes through a virtual dom you don't get any rendering screens as page changes.
This is very smooth transition experience, the routes change but you're never establishing html routes which is interesting. 

Ternary expressions or operations are very common in react because you can implement final stage if statments in a single line of the return 

states are used for everything that is dynamic, if it's static its built into a component or the app.js.
this is used all the time. 

When using react apps search engines aren't able to pull from your homepage since it's a reactapp it doesn't render the HTML words initially to the DOM.

routers will allow processing through url paths, that way links work and they will take you to the correct page.
I was just thinking about the no routes in the last example. 


## 04 Page from scratch Pupster
we start with creating a new app.
then `yarn add axios react-router-dom`
react-router-dom is a npm library that is also a react component that will reference the url path and populate depending.
we add bootstrap and fontawesome.
example - [link](https://pupster.netlify.com/)
I get a decent amount of the way done before we stop the walkthrough and most people leave.
I'll work on more later


