# Saturday Class Notes 01/19/2019
The first 2 hours roughly have no video, luckily the first 45 minutes roughly are talking about forming groups.

## PHP

To use PHP you need XAMPP for windows if your on mac you need MAMP
Linux uses MAMP aswell (seems required for linux or something)

PHP is a server host, this is like express, more than likely express is actually using PHP in the background.
What express does is allows your access to alter the PHP server in the background through node.

PHP is a language that is written in OS script so it doesn't need to be translated unlike javascript for example.
These are fundamental languages of operating systems using key value pairs. 

in terminal:
`php -v` - this should just log the version of PHP you're running. 
PHP is an environmental variable of NODE.

to alter environmental variables of NODE:
in windows search bar type `environment` this pulls up system properties. 
go to Advanced then Enviromental variables
in the top section User Variables for Instructor edit `path`
in path you put `C:\xampp` & `C:\xampp\php`

### Using PHP
start file wtih
`<?php` this doesn't need to be closed if you're not rendering HTML or sending data (like our CLI apps)
`echo` is like console log, it prints into the CLI. 
single quote strings 'like this $name' will print exactly as written
double quote strings "like this $name" will print "like this keagan" if `name = keagan` is predefined.
PHP was a templating language which would initially build the template then execute if it ever did execute, now it executes and defines so it has to be opened with the php tag `<?php` 
```php
$current_year = 2019;
$birth_year = 1991;
$age = $current_year - $birth_year;
```
PHP NEEDS to end with `;`'s after every execute. 
```js
if() 
echo 'hello'
```
No bracket if statements execute current and following line of code only. 
`string.length` is like php's `strlen(string)` ; both render 3 for `bob`.

once you write a `.php` file you can run it in node with `php filename` instead of `node filename` which runs javascript. 
This is what we set up the environmental variables. 

PHP has a built in forEach function
```php
foreach($students_array as $student => $data) {
  $full_name = $student .' '. $data[0];
  echo "My name is $full_name.\n";
  if(strlen($full_name) >12)
  echo "It's a long name. \n";
  else "It's a short name. \n";
  $age = $data[1];
  echo "I'm $age years old.\n";
  if($age >21)
  echo "drink alll the boooze hack all the things";
  else if ($age === 21)
  echo "drink some the booze, hack all the things";
  else
  echo "hack all the things";
}
```
open XAMPP - select config 

### Backtick & PHP Tags
environmental variables are able to be called from strings
backtics are what we use to show code in `.MD` files. 
```js
`hello ${name}`
```
PHP tags are `<div>hello <?php echo $name ?></div>`
rule of thumb for php , php code must start with opening tag `<?php?>`
perl - hypertext pre processor (maybe)

## No objects
```php
$students_array = [
  'Sengstacke' => ['Peleke', 23],
  'Caesar' => ['Julius', 2116]
]
``` 
this is basically a javascript object like:
```js
var studentsArray = {
  sengstacke: ['Peleke', 23],
  Caesar: ['Julius', 2116]
}
```

## Include, require - functions
```php
require './helpers.php';
require_once
include
include_once
```
these are ways to implement and use prewritten code, can be placed anywhere and will render when called. 

## Private or Public variables or functions
Private can only be called to within the function or array, `this` is required for callback.
Public functions or variables can be called to by name.
ex:
```php
private function add ($pokemon) {
  $name = $pokemon->name;
  $this->myPokemon[$name] = $pokemon;
}

public function addPokemon ($pokemon) {
  $name = $pokemon->name;
  if(!array_key_exists($name, $this->myPokemon)) {
    echo "excellent! you caught a new pokemon.\n";
    $this->add($pokemon);
  } else {
    echo "you've already caught that one!\n";
  }
}
```
The private function will add to itself without verification but before the pokemon is pushed to the public pokemon array it goes through verification. 


Require will break if its not there , include will continue if its not there. 

## XAMPP
apache - file server
mysql - data server
firzilla - java server
mercury - email server
tomcat - FTP server ? 

## React Review

We're going to build an app, CRM - Customer Relations Management is what we'll make.
Tracks contacts to customers. 
We're going to use a MERN boilerplate for help with the structure of the app.
This is similar to the MVC structure - Models, Views, Controllers.
This MERN boilerplate creates two servers, one for the front end using React to load and refresh the page.
the backend is running express server through nodemon to update the files to the front end server as you save and edit.

React and Babel is written in ES6 but browsers only use ES4 or ES5, Babel will complile the translated ES5 and that's what the front end is actually using.
The dev tools require react dev tools in order to see what your backend script is turning into on the front end. 

Things that react NEEDS:
`import` `export default` 
```js
class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Container fluid>
        <Navbar currentPage="Home" ></Navbar>
      </Container>
    );
  }
}
export default App;
```
Component is a built in method of React, this ultimately is the function that checks components and processes their functionality.
I'm still not 100% certain where classes should be used or functions.
I do know that the `app.js` is usually always using the `class Var extends Component`.
I believe `class` vs `function` is almost like compositional vs presentational.

If you use class you must extend the component!

Refactor is to redo- implement new technologies, processes, etc...


## SCSS

Is SASS - this is a easy to read old syntax CSS and SCSS converts this syntax into CSS
much like babel does JSX to Javascript and HTML or ES6 to ES4.


## Implementing technologies or templates into react

Mainly you're importing external CSS or JS this is generally client side JS and therefore you only need to put the files in the public folder and make sure you're importing them.

You may link them through the `index.html` in most cases.
Then you just utilize the classes or ID's and the JS or CSS associated with them inside your app.
This shouldn't impact react too much since its mainly styling and client side JS.

Your functionality of the site/app is all from you on the server side; the asthetics come from public folder and linked through the HTML. 


#### MISC
C does not have objects, programming language is similar to PHP no objects just key value pairs. 
