# React Review
When calling to data from a database or an API within react you want to call to the data before the DOM loads.
to do this we want to use the built in method:
```js
componenetDidMount() {
    this.getyourdata();
}
```
the name speaks for itself, this will complete the block of code and return values before the DOM will load.
This of course takes less than 1 second in most cases and is not noticable to the user.
This is part of the smooth UI that react creates. 
`Component` is a built in Constructor Function (Object Constructor with built in methods) `component` like in `componentDidMount` is used to reference actual components we load into the app.

dummy and smart components is the presentational or compositional or something.
These are two seperate types of components, one focuses on rendering UI side, other is the structure or formatting of the data. 
Presentational and Container components
no state inside the components is Presentational, this means its not caring what goes into it.
Container has states, it cares about whats contained in it.

Below is a snippet of code that helps with using states within react
```js
constructor(props) {
   super(props);
   this.state = {
   };
} 
```
this is almost the same as 
```js
state = {};
```

## Authentication
Sub recommends we use MERN-Passport
[link](https://github.com/thechutrain/mern-passport)
this is front-end back end user authentication.
to connect to mongo you go to their server/db


recommends take udemy class - Node with React: Fullstack Web Dev by Stephen Grider 

# React Wireframe

moqups, draw.io


## The rest of class is working on homework and activities
[Fisher-Yates-Shuffle](https://bost.ocks.org/mike/shuffle/)
I utilize this time to work on the clicky game homework, I've almost got it done, ended up doing a bunch of research on shuffling and sorting, there's some really cool stuff on that.
