### 12/19/18 Tuesday Class Notes - Mongo DB.
We start with installing mongodb and reviewing databases.


#### Non-Relational Databases
non-Relational databases is what mongo is strong in. 
This is allowing different tables to have associations with the others.
Instead of recreating models you can add and alter relational databases much easier.
some differnces in termonology include:
sqlTerm     nosql term
database    database
table       collection
row         document
column      field

Some advantages of using mongodb is a more dynamic data structure.
Since sql sets the model and is tricky to go through and alter models without disrupting all the rest of the data mongodb is more dynamic (no-sql);
nosql seems to be preferred for larger scallable databases
because it can be altered very easily. 
great for building prototypes, when you don't know what data you might need going down the road. 
able to search sub-documents; so like subkeys and values, I LIKE THIS. 

sql is great for accounting or multirow processing, set structures etc. 

#### Migrations
Migration are when you're transferring data over or changing model structures.

#### Starting to use mongo
inside node run command `mongod` then `mongo` (mongod starts the system process)
then 
`use lessondb`
this will create the database by name
`db`
this will show the current db by running db:
`db.places.insert({"continent": "Africa", "country":"Morocco", "majorcities": ["Casablanca", "Fez", "Marrakech"]})`
Once you're using a db and running the mongo cli you can create your models, collections
`show dbs || show collections` either of these will show whats in the system.
`db.places.find()` this is the quick way to pull data; like `db.places.findAll({})` in sequelize.
`db.places.find().pretty()`

#### Where
`db.places.find({"continent":"Africa"}).pretty()`
this is case sensative "africa" doesn't work or "Continent"

#### Updates
`db.places.update({"Country": "Morocco"}, {$set: {"continent": "Antarctica"}})`
this is case sensitive so you MUST know the names of the fields and documents.
update can be used to add a field or document that doesn't exist yet
`db.places.update({"Country": "Morocco"}, {$set: {"capital": "Morocco's Capital"}})`

#### Deleting
This is very similar to the other function options
```
db.places.remove({})
```
without parameters given it will delete the whole collections contents.
`db.places.drop()` is how we can remove the collection entirely. 
`db.dropDatabase()` will drop the database entirely after `use database_name` is called prior or database name is given into parameters. 

#### Classroom database activity
[markdown notes](./activity/instructions.md)

while using mongo its best to keep all things lowercase is my assumption after running into case issues so much. 

#### RoboT3T
here you can open your databases and right click a collection and `open shell`
this opens a terminal shell that autocompletes as you write, meaning you can search mongodb prototypes etc that are available as you write it. 
using node is the same ultimately but robot3 is a bit easier to navigate and has the autocomplete which is great. 


#### Rants ;) 
Normal forms, 1-3rd are standard; 4th-5th everything becomes a table basically with associations and foreign keys. 

W18.D1