# 12/20/2018 Thursday Notes - MongoDB and Scrapping
[video link](https://codingbootcamp.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=dcea2152-2a8e-493d-8916-a9bd00193182)
## Lecture
We start off talking about scrapping, using `cheerio.js` and `axios.js`. 
This is where you pull the content of a website and process it into the code.
You could use this maliciously or positively but ultimately pulling public data from the web and archiving it or using it isn't necessarily illegal.
cheerio is a way of using and manipulating data you scrapped.
It works similarly to jquery using $ as your key to the prototype functions cheerio has within itself. 
cheerio can also populate data back to a DOM similar to handlebars. 

As websites get more complex and have more javascript 


## Activities

### Scraping Example
[scraping](./05-Scraping/server.js)
In our example we have 2 dependencies axios and cheerio.
with these you can pull data from http requests and store it.
I'm not sure if this can download files that are sent in response to http requests like image files.
You can atleast definitely get the link to the source of the file and potentially use that to pull images from other sites.
In a project I'm working on I want to take images that are on their site to put onto my app for their site; maybe this scrapping will work. 
```js
$("figure.rollover").each(function(i, element) {
var imgLink = $(element).find("a").find("img").attr("data-srcset").split(",")[0].split(" ")[0];
  results.push({ link: imgLink });
  });
  console.log(results);
});
```

### Scaping Starter - Riot scrapped
scraping the league of legends site I wanted was pretty difficult to navigate its content.
so I decided to run the curl test and found that the content I was looking to scrape was dynamic and wasn't loaded at the initial call...
I wish we went more into how to get further into the dynamic scrapping but maybe its not possible. 

### Mongodb Zoo activity
```node
db
show dbs
show collections
db.animals.find();
db.animals.find().sort({weight: 1}); -- this means sorts by weight column in ASC by default
db.animals.find().sort({weight: -1}); -- sort by DESC with -1 value to override default
db.animals.find().sort({numLegs: -1}) -- to sort by leg number DESC. >first
db.animals.insert()
```
We now move to combine express and mongojs to use mongodb as our database for a live app/site.

```js
var express = require("express");
var mongojs = require("mongojs");
var app = express();
var databaseUrl = "zoo";
var collections = ["animals"];
var db = mongojs(databaseUrl, collections);
db.on("error", function(error) {
  console.log("Database Error:", error);
});
```
The server set up is similar to using sql database and sequelize but the `db.on('error')` part is very interesting. There's no `db.sync` or `db.on('nonerror')` listener. 

#### Deployed
Once our npms are installed and we launch the server we have a static and dynamic route.
Then we move onto making two more dynamic routes that populate with `db.animals.find().sort({weight: -1},(err,data) => if(err)throw err; res.json(data));`
we continue with a couple more sorts then go into making two buttons to sort and populate the DOM differently based off of what we've learned.
```js
function displayResults(animals) {
  $("tbody").empty();

  animals.forEach(function(animal) {
    var tr = $("<tr>").append(
        $("<td>").text(animal.name),
        $("<td>").text(animal.numLegs),
        $("<td>").text(animal.class),
        $("<td>").text(animal.weight),
        $("<td>").text(animal.whatIWouldReallyCallIt)
    );
    $("tbody").append(tr);
  });
};
```


## Notes/Misc
Running curl in node performs a node based axios get request that parses the code into the terminal log. 
`curl https://www.meteor.com/`
This logs very little data since the page is so dynamic using javascript.
a dynamic site protects your from scrapping in a lot of ways it seems. 


I'm doing class from work at a hotel using their internet; for some reason I get this error trying to run `mongo` from node:
```node
MongoDB shell version v4.0.4
connecting to: mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017
2018-12-21T01:31:24.863-0700 E QUERY    [js] Error: couldn't connect to server 127.0.0.1:27017, connection attempt failed: SocketException: Error connecting to 127.0.0.1:27017 :: caused by :: No connection could be made because the target machine actively refused it. :
connect@src/mongo/shell/mongo.js:257:13
@(connect):1:6
exception: connect failed
```

W18.D2
