## Class Notes 1/5/2019 on Angular and React
We're reviewing scope and common variables and functions because angular and react take a form of javascript and convert it to javascript.
These are ecma4 and ecma6, unsure about exacts. 
```js
var joe = 'hello';

function myFunction(param1,param2) {
    console.log(x);

}

for(var x = 0; x < 100; x++) {
    //do something
}
console.log(x);
myFunction(1,2);
```
turns into
```js
(function() {
    var joe = 'hello';
    
    function myFunction(param1,param2) {
        console.log(x);
    
    }
    
    for(var x = 0; x < 100; x++) {
        //do something
    }
    console.log(x);
    myFunction(1,2);
})();
```
this is an annonymous function with a self contained callback and self contained scope. 
self contained functions are isolating the scope to protect the variables and data within to not overflow into global or be taken from global scope or any other predifined scope.

We go into review of syntactical sugars, these are like spices added to the javascript language, this makes it to where you can replace syntax with arrows instead of `function(){}`
I use tons of arrow functions and single line expressions where arrows have now brackets, only one line code though.

### This & Arrow Functions
when calling setTiemout(something,100) you create a global window timer, this escapes scopes and if inside your timeout you use `this` you'll lose the scope and be at global when the timeout is completed
`setTImeout().bind(this)`
the arrow function has prototypes that automatically bind `this` to the parent object.

If you have an object key dog.makeSound(); where the function calls this, it will go to the parent object not the current object, 
`dog.makeSound = () => console.log(this.sound)`
since dog is the object in reference the arrow function turns this into the objects parent, which is the global instead of pulling `dog.sound` it pulls `window.sound` which is unidentified. 

### Let & blockScope
blockscopes are loops, or things within blocks `{}` anonymous blocks are just objects with code in them.
`for` `if` are more common blocks. 
```js
let y = 42;
for(let j = 0; j<50; j++) {
    if(j === y) console.log('they matched');
    console.log(j);
    console.log(y);
}
```
### Const & Reference
once a constant is defined it cannot be changed, only regarding its type
for example if you set a const of one variable `const age = 25` and `age++` will not work because that's recreating age which is a set Integer in memory.
if you do `const beatles = ['john', 'paul', 'ringo']` it is defined as an array in memory, you cannot take from the array but you can add too it. ( you may be able to take away)
you can `beatles.push('George')` and this will add george to the array. I cannot change the array into an object, or clear the entire array by setting it as a new array `beatles = []`.

## Truthy && Falsey
When using ternary expressions and if statements you can check if things are truthy or not, meaning if they have a value, or if they're set to be read as false `null, 0, undefined, ""`
etc...

### Ternary expressions & If statements
These are simplefied syntax for if and else statements.

```js
const meal = likesVeggies ? "Vegetable Stir Fry" : "Cheeseburger";
```
This is the same as `const meal = if(likesVeggies) {'vegetable stir fry'} else {'cheeseburguer'}`
Super simplified code, I love shorthand code like this.

## Functional loops
This is great stuff for what I've been working on.
Filter, Map , Reduce, are functional loops and they perform tasks that're complex very simply.

At first I thought I made a proper functional loop but then realized that it can be even better.
FIrst is poor example. 
```js
const primeArr = originalArray.filter((data) => {
  if(isPrime(data)) {
    return true;
  }
  console.log('primeArr worked');
});
console.log(primeArr);
```
Now here is the great example
```js
const primeArr = originalArray.filter(data => isPrime(data)? true:false);
console.log(primeArr);
```
I love how simple the code becomes to write even though the complexity of the code is increasing.
That's suppper rad.  I Want like 5 weeks of this level stuff ++++ instead of so much time on html and css ;) 

### Constructors
With constructors we've gone over before, they're objects that build objects with inherent content.
we use a person as an example for constructors, then discuss inheritence like a student vs an instructor, both are persons but they do different things. 
Like in biology there are kingdoms, classes, familes, etc, all different levels of a biological creature.


forEach is also a functional loop 



