#### Class Notes Tuesday 11.27.18
We start by talking about the process of the chart example given.
It basically shows server.js which contains html routes, api routes, ORM, and connection
then browser seperate on the right shows add.html, views.html, all.html. 
GET/POST connect the two.
Below is the databse which is only connected to server.js.
this protects a lot of your backend logic and connections, they're all server side. 

This is ultimately talking about full stack development where html and css are generated and pulled from the server side instead of being static they're dynamic.
ORM - object relational mapping , for model view controller. model is structure for data view is the shown product of data controller is switches and triggers sending models and views. 

Today we're starting a prebuilt ORM called sql, won't have to do manual sql queries etc. 
 

### Chirpy Activity

We're doing a posting activity like twitter posts to a public board. 

We learn about `express.static` which sends the css and static client side information like css or html etc. 

We discuss callbacks as options to improve sorting and retreiving data
`function sortArray(myArray, direction, field) {}`

```js
[{first:'a' last:'b'}{first:'z' last:'a'}].sort(function(item1,item2) {
    return (item1.last > item2.last) ? 0: -1;
});
```
We discuss sequelize which is an npm you can use that should simplify the sql connection and query process more. 
`user.sync({force: true}).then(() => {}`
This npm will help you create tables and data from javascript into sql.
It also helps with not having to write out sql codes.

None of the examples were working for the sequalize connection with the database so I'm a little concerned about how well todays class really went.

We spent a lot of time remaking the starwars app and reviewing sequalize documentation and yet the solved example and what I spent all the time building wasn't working. (I've still been unable to solve the issue, first I found an issue where the database table we built was named differently, I fixed that, now sequelize is trying to pull columns that don't exist; these createdAt, updatedAt columns that Ethan lightly mentioned sequelize automatically made; yet somethings wrong because it's not automatically being made. ) 

We go into a review of sequalizecli which is a command line option for sequelize
this will allow you to generate `.js` files from the command line with the script written for example the models that we're building of `Character` in the starwars app.
This saves time and effort for building out models, seems you can also generate lots more than just models with this cli app.

[Link to video] (https://codingbootcamp.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=f7142a79-ab17-4aee-82bc-a9a600192247)