### Class notes 12.1.18 Saturday
We've been talking about sequelize.
We've used two methods mainly so far;
-findAll,  which selects all from the database in a  table with conditions. 
-findOne, which selects data from a table with specific conditions. or first       record with conditions. 
-destroy, deletes records from the database. 
-update - Updates all records matching conditions. 

db.modelName.findAll({values},{options}) - if left blank find all will find all values. options is where we put conditions like `where: {id: 1}`

When doing validations you apply them to the models, this will make it to where data is validated on the server side before its put into the database. 

Deprecated warnings - these are saying that the function name or value you're using from the npm is being updated, their may be a new way to do it but if your npm like sequelize is dependent on an older version of another npm this is the type of error you'll see; deprecated doesn't mean it's going to go away but it could I think.

A regular expressions, theyr'e the search paramaters that look at values of input.
https://regexr.com
///

it can have groups / < means start of a line>
/^(a-zA-z)*(0-9)  this should find the first word on a line that is followed by numbers or something like that. 

We demo a blog where you post a title, body, and a catigory. the backend generates a timestamp of DATETIME on its own.
Posts can be deleted or edited from the homescreen viewing all posts. 

Side conversation on `env` the environment where values live and are called to using `process.env` we've used this before where you're using node to run the servers etc.
heroku and other admins or hosts will have defined ports and stuff so you'd use 
```js
var port = process.env.PORT || 3030;
```

### Models
In creating a model you have to use a defined structure:
I prefer the freezeTableName so it doesn't pluralize:
```js
module.exports = (sequelize, DataTypes) => {
return sequelize.define('post', {columns:{type:DataTypes.STRING}},{freezeTableName:true});
};
```
There are many DataTypes options [here](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/manual/tutorial/models-definition.html#data-types)
We kind of touch on the way that models are built which includes a lot of the issues I've run into with sequelize where it has a lot of auto initiated things like timestamps and plural table names. We didn't cover this as much when we were introduced but it's caused a couple things not to work.
The documentation has a bit more on model defenitions explaining whats done, but it's not the greatest either, you have to dig for it all. 

### Blog 
We run through the blog activity first creating the model, then we get a new folder that has a prebuilt model, it's slightly different but we've seen this structure for the model. it ended up causing me issues because I used `db.post.findAll()` instead of `db.Post.findAll()` slight changes in the model structure impact callbacks greatly.
It's cool I learned that and found the fix on my own by looking at the model. 
Once we finish the API routes ultimately this is social networking.
All software is is CRUD'ing databases and then controlling access of who gets to edit stuff.
So more information would be good in this case like who's the author, can anyone edit another authors information, etc. So user identification is probably next. 

### Blog - Authors
When authors are added into the mix then you have two tables in your database.
These tables hare linked using the sql syntax `JOIN` either left right or something. 
In our example if you remove an author it removes all the posts as well.
Meaning two tables are impacted by the delete command, this is done through some `cascade` which we haven't fully used before but ultimately it makes sense. 
in the model we have a function key associated with authors table from posts and vice versa
```js
inside module.exports {
Post.associate = function(models) {
    Post.belongsTo(models.Author, {
        foreignKey: {
            allowNull: false
        }
    });
    return Post;
};
 // then in author
 inside module.exports {
 Author.associate = function(models) {
     Author.hasMany(models.Post, {
         onDelete:"cascade"
     });
    };
    return Author;
 }
```
using the options `include` you create sql `JOIN`s
 ```sql
 `AS `Post` LEFT OUTER JOIN `Authors`
 ```

### Server 
If you have the sync force true it will rebuild your schema and tables, rewriting your data, if you remove it everything works but doesn't rewrite, interesting.
```js
db.sequelize.sync({ force: true }).then(function() {
  app.listen(PORT, function() {
    console.log("App listening on PORT " + PORT);
  });
});
```
```js
db.sequelize.sync().then(function() {
```
works the without the force true; idk why you'd want force true beyond the very first steps of implementation and deployment. 

### Shorthand
OMG There's an even shorter shorthand for one parameter functions and returns.
```js
.then((results) => {
      return res.json(results.dataValues)
    });
```
I thought that was short but theres this.
```js
.then(results => res.json(results));
```
So stoked! Thank you ethan!
W15.D3