### Notes
We start with a problem solving activity for handlebars. 
the port and base config of the express app is already built.
We're just filling in the response portions of the routes that they've laid out.
We of course start out with NPM install.
```js
var pets = [];
  for(x=0; x<animals.length; x++) {
    if(animals[x].pet === true) {
      pets.push(animals[x]);
    }
  }
  res.render('index',{
    input: pets
  });
```
For a second the how to only send pets stumped me because I wasn't sure if there's a better way within express or something. So I just built a for loop and if statement. 
I was able to get all 3 routes working properly by the time we went into example.
In review it looks like we just create a for loop also but built slightly different than mine. 
My handlebars:
```handlebars
{{#each input}}
<p>Type: {{animalType}}
</p>
<p>Pet: {{pet}}
</p>
<p>Fiercness Points: {{fierceness}}
</p>
<hr>
{{/each}}
```
#### Map Reduce & Filter
We go into discussion on map reduce and filter ; which is functional programming.
callback a function that returns values. 
these are functions that seem to be prebuilt into javascript that allow you to loop through arrays and return select information. 
```js
res.render('index',{
    input: animals.filter(function(animals) {
        return animals.pet === false
        })
  });

```
Big-O , a loop is the number of items in the loop; computer science term.


### REST - Representational State Transter 
GET and POST -
GET - reads/pulls data || read
POST - writes/pushes data || create
PUT - sets data.. || update existing item
DELETE  - removes data || delete 
```js
app.get();
app.post('/animal', function () {
});
app.put('/animal/:id', function(req,res){
    animals[req.params.id] = req.body
}); 
app.delete('/animal/:id', function(){
});
```
These are all event listeners for the set routes that you need to listen to requests on.
When creating a REST api it's ideal to follow these methods when interacting with content and data. 


### Task Saver
we unzip the folders and npm install and also create the database and update server.js with our sql password. 
This uses one route and two methods GET and POST. in combination with handlebars it populates the content from the database. 
We then try to copy paste and edit the information to create a wish saver app.

### Movie Saver
We jump into another activity where we are given an example that's similar to the movie saver with GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. all being utilized.
```js

// Delete a movie
app.delete("/movies/:id", function(req, res) {
  connection.query("DELETE FROM movies WHERE id = ?", [req.params.id], function(err, result) {
    if (err) {
      // If an error occurred, send a generic server failure
      return res.status(500).end();
    }
    else if (result.affectedRows === 0) {
      // If no rows were changed, then the ID must not exist, so 404
      return res.status(404).end();
    }
    res.status(200).end();

  });
});
```