#### Intro To React
React was built by facebook to compartmentalize all of the components of a website.
The chat, wall, menu bar, side menues, adds, all are seperate apps that run through react.
React has a virtual DOM that is being written to by all the seperate components and then it populates to the actual DOM. 

It reactively updates based on which components states are active or not active. 
When states are changed it reacts to the changes; hovers, clicks, open/active browsers. 


React Native is used to generate mobile apps with the react library.


Primarily a view library which is concerned with rendering user interfaces.
Other libraries are needed to use other aspets like HTTP requests. 

Babel converts ecma script 6 ES6 into ES5 so node can use it.

React uses ecma script 6 - 

ecma script 5- some of these features are and aren't supported in node. 
module.export is used for node.

## How to use React
`$ npm install -g create-react-app yarn`

Then you create a react app
inside node:
`create-react-app appname`
once completed go to the newly created sub folder
run `yarn start` 
this should launch a new browser or tab; with your page in an unlive server. 
this is a server like nodemon.
you can then edit your files and they'll populate live to the page that opened.

react is a whole new `node server` process.
rendering components inside other components is possible with react.

```js
function App() {
  return <HelloReact />;
}

```
Hello react is its own component in the `components` folder of the `src` parent folder. 

```js
import React from 'react';
function HelloDiv() {
  return (
    <h1>Hello! My Name is Keagan</h1>
  );
}
export default HelloDiv;
```

Above is the standard component layout required for app components. 

something weird happens if you change the name of fucntions as you build like helloDiv above, if I changed its name it seemed to break for some reason.

