### Sequelize class Thursday 11.29.18
ORM - object relational model. 
CRUD - Create, Read, Update, Delete = GET, POST etc, also findOne, findAll, create - all are CRUD's for sql and sequelize.

We discuss ORM's and if we understand what these are.
To me I see the ORM one, mysql, and sequelize are all < these were all npms we installed and have used making models and structures. different types of ORM structures. 
We establish a database, then query to the database
Models allow you to pull data without writting specific sql queries. 
sequelize can work with mysql, microsoftsql, oraclesql, sequelize can talk to all these database types, so using some ORMs is very usefull because they can be changed one setting to communicate with different databases. 
its paramater is called dialect. (related to language)


#### Sequelize
Class will mainly be on sequelize
in the folder root in bash he typed `cat confit/config.json`
Ethan asks about why we would want the 3 objects it contains
Development, Test, Production. These are seperate database options within sequelize, you can also see the `dialect: mysql` key within these json objects. 

Our main activity for today will be the database todolist. 
When you try to require a folder the first thing it looks for is index.js.
sequelize init creates the models folder and file so you can `require(./models)`

In our activity we go through and remove the ORM references from the ORM NPM that is more of a static ORM and integrate sequelize for a more dynamic ORM. 

Most of the activity goes pretty smooothly where we're replacing ORM with sequelize.
```js
module.exports = (sequelize, DataTypes) => {
    return sequelize.define('todo', {
        text: DataTypes.STRING,
        complete: DataTypes.BOOLEAN
    }, {
        freezeTableName: true
    });
};
```
It's pretty cool that this is all the model is for a simple todolist database.
I still want to understand more information about the auto created columns from sequelize, it made starwars and chirpy not work from last class. 

Once we got to the update portion of the activities I ran into an error, below you can see whats being updated to the database; the issue is that the front end logic wasn't holding any value for the `complete` column.
I had to go in and edit the front end logic in order to get this to work right for me, and even then it's a bandaid not a correct fix. 
```node
Executing (default): UPDATE `todo` SET `text`='finish classes',`complete`='',`updatedAt`='2018-11-30 10:21:44' WHERE `id` = '2'
Unhandled rejection SequelizeDatabaseError: Incorrect integer value: '' for column 'complete' at row 1
```

This is the solved example
```js
function finishEdit(event) {
    var updatedTodo = $(this).data("todo");
    if (event.which === 13) {
      updatedTodo.text = $(this).children("input").val().trim();
      $(this).blur();
      updateTodo(updatedTodo);
    }
}
```
This is what I had to do.
```js
function finishEdit(event) {
    var updatedTodo = $(this).data("todo");
    console.log(updatedTodo);
    if (event.which === 13) {
      updatedTodo.text = $(this).children("input").val().trim();
      updatedTodo.complete = false;  /*<<<<<<<<<<< heres the change*/
      $(this).blur();
      updateTodo(updatedTodo);
    }
  }
```
This isn't a proper fix but it got me to move along with the class roughly on time. 
I went in and reviewed the code some more on the front end and I'm not sure why I ran into this issue at all....
the updated todo was holding the original complete key and value; yet when it tried sending it to sql it showed blank as the value for complete...
I removed my edit and it worked, I'm not sure why it didn't initiatlly, wonder if I hadn't saved something right.

We moved on to validation of user input, FINALLYY
I've really wanted more of this with how many times we've referenced validating is so important.
[link to doc](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/manual/tutorial/models-definition.html#validations)

Overall pretty great class lots of new learning with all these sequelize options. 
Validations worked well - I wasn't able to find a way to make an alert pop ( this was above and beyond and not required at all) but I figured instead of just doing nothing it'd be best to pop a notification to the user and let them know why what they just tried didn't work.
Currently on User side nothing happens when you incorrectly enter in the input against the validations. 

W15.D2