# SQL
sql is a server/database, one of the most common servers used by companies.
Mysql is a free open server/database.
Servers are pieces of software that are running on specific computers.
Ports are ways to connect to MySQL server which communicates with the databases. 
Local instance; I didn't automatically have this. Though example did.
Node apps would establish connections with databases ran through Mysql.
schema's in Mysql are databases ultimately.
Other databases like oracle seperate schemas and database. 
*Notes on the board really need to be captured for remote classes.*

### query 1
```sql
create database new_databse
```
when this runs it'll establish a database named new_database. 
this is stored under schema's once refreshed. 
```sql
drop database new_database
```
this will delete the database; both in same line will create then delete.
`CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER` runs all query lines. 

### IP-addresses
these are how the internet communicates and identifies servers, users, clients, and all devices connected to the internet.
all unique; atleast locally.

ports listen from within the ip addresses for communications. 
web servers run on port 80 and 443 for web traffic. 
non standard are like 3000 or 4000 3306 etc. 

sys database is its system; don't mess w/ it. 
you can pull up database-manage connections to check your port information etc. 

removed safe updates from edit-preferences-sql editor-other- safe updates checkmark.

### database tables
Database tables are like excel spreadsheets.
except they're locked for what you build, if you only build 2 columns that's all it has. until you rebuild or restructure.
constructors are like tab names for excel pages. 
unique identifiers are limited duplicates; unique. 
```sql
CREATE TABLE favorite_movies (
  id INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  movie NOT NULL VARCHAR(100),
  five_times boolean default false,
  score INTEGER(10),
  PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

SELECT * FROM favorite_db.favorite_songs;
```
creates a table and shows you it. 
#### syntax
```sql
retrieve{
select <colName> from <table>
[where <col> = <val>]
}
insert {
    insert into <table>(<col>)
    values(<vals>)
}
delete {
    delete from <table>
    where <col>=<val>
}
```
creating content
```sql
INSERT INTO favorite_movies (movie, five_times, score)
VALUES ("The Fountain", true, 10);
DESCRIBE favorite_foods;
```
in this I left out the id column because it auto generates and increments and it works great! pretty rad. 

### use
using the database you set id's for every table allowing you to call to id's to get data.
Joining data will make connections to seperate tables. 
```sql
SELECT title, firstName, lastName
FROM books
INNER JOIN authors ON books.authorId = authors.id;
LEFT JOIN authors ON books.authorId = authors.id;
RIGHT JOIN authors ON books.authoId = authors.id; 
```
Joining in the above ways will limit the data populated depending on the first paramater givin of the `SELECT` function; this case title.
Null data severly impacts the `JOIN` function.
### cautions
Once deploying any server where you're pulling user input into your sql you MUST have verifications of users input; they could pull all the data if they wanted by adding it into a value field and pushing it to the sql server. which is how all data pulls and communicates. 

