# 1/22/2019 Class Notes React app from scratch with mongodb and API calls
to establish a new app with mongo db you must establish the database first.
we're building on top of what we started on Saturday [here](./../01_Saturday/01_activity/server.js)

* `for the server.js`
```js
const mongoose = require("mongoose");
const db = require("./models")
mongoose.connect('mongodb://localhost/crm',() => {
  console.log('connected to db:crm');
});
```
* `for the models/filename`
```js
const Mongoose = require('mongoose'):
const Schema = Mongoose.Schema;

const CustomerSchema = new Schema({
    firstName: {
        type: String,
        required: true
    },
    lastName: {
        type: String,
        required: true
    },
    email: {
        type: String,
        required: true
    }
});
const Customer = Mongoose.model("Customer", CustomerSchema);
module.exports = Customer;
```
Inside the models folder you have to create the index file that will manage the routes of `db = require('./models');`
```js
const Customer = require("./Customer.js");
module.exports = {
    Customer: Customer
};
```
Then you need `robo 3T`, right click `connection` on top left `create new databse`
set it as you named it in the `server.js` in this case its `crm`.
add a test item once db is made and your schema is made
`db.customers.insert({firstName:"keagan", lastName:"cheatwood", email: "email@something.com"})`

Something is going wrong with my app, I can connect to the DB but when I go to the route I don't get anything.

`axios` allows you to request APIs or scrape sites, headless browser its called.


# Node
Copy paste directories.
`cp -r ./SourceFolder ./DestFolder` 
-r keeps the source folder name 

# PHP
Starts 1hr 58 min in to [class](https://codingbootcamp.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=5a361353-bd68-4005-a1c9-a9de001a8c42)

in javascript we do `module.exports` or `export default` in order to utilize other scripts within a script.
Within PHP we have require, include, and require/include_once.
These work as so:
require - must have a file linked correctly or will break.
require_once - allows you to use a specific script multiple times in different ways; but        must exist.
foreach loops are built into PHP. 
javascript forEach was added as a prototype because someone wrote it and it was so popular. - not built in like PHP.

```php
$somearray = ["uh","chi","ha"];  // this is a regular array
foreach ($somearray as $key=>$value) {
    echo "$key ." ". $value . \n";
}
$someOtherArray = [
    "uchiha" => ["uh", "chi", "ha"],
    "sasuke" => ["suks", "kay"]
]
```
associative arrays are basically objects. their key value pair arrays. 

private, protected, public - are 3 classifications of functions and controlling parameters. 
c, c++ and Java, all use these getters and setters, making things public or not.
This protects functions and access through set parameters on public functions.


#### For PHP Web applications

PHP needs a web server in front of PHP.
This pluggin for apache or PHP
`php -S localhost:3000` will open up a web server in the root you're currently in.
or `php -S localhost:3000 filename`.
this is what apache does but PHP has this built in now. 

ran into issues running the local server
solution was to edit path on `env` files again
path edit `xampp\pear`.




