# Tuesday Class 1/16/2019
W20.7+

## React Review

onChange is the handler for handling state changes.
presentational handlers are used as `props.handlerName`
ternary expressions ( I love and use these all the time)
`condition ? (true option) : (false option);`
ternary expressions are truthy expressions. 

class video is just a webcam so it's a bit tricky to follow.
We're reviewing the combination or express and react 
good example is 20-react/07-ins_Mern or examples has one alf slacked out
MERN - Mongo Express React Node 

## Activity One

We're given the start of a web app top populate recepy options from a static API.
We have to alter a couple things in order to utilize the dynamic nature react allows.
mainly we're focusing on `this.state.recipes` and `props.title` or any other `props` key paths.
This proved to be a little tricky without having a visual walk through, though ethan explained things well so I was able to use his explanations and the ReadMe to figure it out.
```js
<Col size="xs-12">
    <h1>Render Recipes Here</h1>
    <RecipeList >
    {this.state.recipes.map(recipe => {
        return (
        <RecipeListItem
            key={recipe.title}
            title={recipe.title}
            href={recipe.href}
            thumbnail={recipe.thumbnail}
            ingredients={recipe.ingredients}
        />
        );
    })};

    </RecipeList>
</Col>
```
The biggest part was properly calling to the RecipeList component and then maping/looping through the recipes response from the API call and render multiple child components.

The other interesting part was the RecipeList having multiple export functions.
they are almost seen as individual components but on the app page their imported as a single import with multiple keys `import { RecipeList, RecipeListItem } from "./components/RecipeList";`
```js
import React from "react";
import Thumbnail from "../Thumbnail";
import { Container, Row, Col } from "../Grid";
export function RecipeList({ children }) {
  return <ul className="list-group">{children}</ul>;
}
export function RecipeListItem(props) {
  return (
    <li className="list-group-item">
      <Container>
        <Row>
          <Col size="xs-4 sm-2">
            <Thumbnail src={props.thumbnail === ""? "https://via.placeholder.com/150?text=No+Image+Available": props.thumbnail} />
          </Col>
          <Col size="xs-8 sm-9">
            <h3>{props.title}</h3>
            <p>
              Ingredients: "{props.ingredients}"
            </p>
            <a
              rel="noreferrer noopener"
              target="_blank"
              href="{props.href}"
            >
              Go to recipe!
            </a>
          </Col>
        </Row>
      </Container>
    </li>
  );
}
```

## Activity Two

This is another API type app but it's pulling from our own database this time. 
We will be using mongoDB for this one.
We'll be completing a form and finalizing the app.
once copying over the unsolved folder contents you initiate the app with another `yarn install`
this runs the `npm install` in the client folder so all the libraries are there ready to be deployed. 
This activity didn't require much changing, as much as identifying where and what to change. 
There is a lot to review with all the contoller, models, and script folders.
Since all the connections to the database are already written we're only changing the population portion of the app.
Final functionallity. 
```js
componentDidMount() {
    this.loadBooks();
}
```
This componenetDidMount() function is almost like a promise for proper loading of the component.
Once loaded it'll generate some information; depending on what you specify to happen inside the function. 

## Activity Three
We skip activity 10 and jump right into 11 ReactRouter
This is very complex we're working on establishing Routes and I don't know why but this is never sticking in memory.
You establish the Routes properly on the app.js file
```js
function App() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <switch>
        {/* The Empty path route is last because <switch> stops on first true */}
        <Route path="/" component={Books} />
        <Route path="/books" component={Books} />
        <Route path="/detail" component={Detail} />
        <Route component={NoMatch} />
      </switch>
    </Router>
  );
}
```
This switch will stop on the first true; the no path route is the default if no match is sent it'll populate that page. 
