## Class notes Saturday 2/2/2019
We start by reviewing the CS data structures and algorithms we've been reviewing.

Main data structures include:
Array 
Linked List
Binary Array
Associative array - Hash Map - Dictionary. 
Trees
Binary Trees
Stacks
Queue's


Algorithms we've reviewed:
Sort
Linear Sort
Binary Sort
Linear Search
Binary Search
Selection sort, insertion sort, quick sort. 


Sorting and indexing are pretty similar in databases.
databases will create sorted lists aka indexes based off of primary or foreign keys. 

After review of CS - computer science -  we move into working on homework to get caught up or portfolios or projects depending on what is needed for graduation.
Ethan helps with Jon's portfolio which is having modal troubles. 


a fun little ternary example:
```js
var test = ["Keagan", "Ethan", "Mark", "Bob", "Joe"];
test.filter(val => val.length >3).slice(0,2);

var dates = [{startDate: "12/31/2018"}];
dates.filter(val => moment(val.startDate).isGreaterThan(moment()));
```

These are ways of reducing and sorting arrays within a filter function then you can slice, map, or output the new array in anyway.

The rest of class is used to work on projects.
I'm able to utilize this time and get some great work done on my project.
I'm not working on any homework, I only have 1 missing assignment that is required and I'm okay with missing that one, the assignment involves a lot of what I have to do in my project so I'm not wanting to use the time to repeat work when I could try to get even further with my solo project. 

