## Notes

### First Example
We're creating another REST app thats going to be sending JSON data as an API.
we'll need to establish routes /api/quotes, /quotes. etc etc...
first we review the POST where we'll need to make a `connection.query(sql_code, (err,data) =>{console.log(data)});`
to know what you're sending to the database you have to use `req.body.author & req.body.quote` when doing a PUT or POST you use `req.body` when you do a GET you use `req.params` in most cases. 
anything to follow `.body` or `.params`

### ORM - Object Relational Mapper
This should help with processing multiple steps of server paths/routes.
MVC - Model View Controller
View - part of app showing handlebars templates, also javascript and front end code. (view like content)
Controller - server.js the routes/paths (controller like switches)
Model - database, storage.
ORM helps remove the need to keep writting out the different SQL statements etc. 

Example Skeleton
```
root
    -config
        -connection.js
        -orm.js
    -db
        -schema.sql
        -seeds.sql
    -package.json
    -server.js
```


Abstraction is a method where you break apart things into pieces so its clearer.
the `server.js` doesn't connect to the database the `orm.js` connects to the `connection.sql` file which establishes connection with the database. 
```js
 selectWhere: function(tableInput, colToSearch, valOfCol) {}
      selectWhere: function(tableInput, colToSearch, valOfCol, callback) {}
      -------------------

callback(err,data)
```
When we're using ORM in the example it only console logs the data  but if you add a paramater you can do a callback
We're then given a broken ORM set-up where it's logging the variable before the variables connection is completed.
This is to show that the ORM method alone doesn't allow for data to be returned in its results alone.
This is because of scope `server>orm>connections` is the route and server is the only one able to relay data to the client side. this means you must have callback functions that carry the data back up the ladder.

### Callbacks and on Click review
We review on click functions with jquery 
`$(#butto).on('click',() =>{dosomethin})` and `var sum = f(num1,num2) {return num1+num2};`

### Models Controllers
Model is core - database 
View is results or result opttions - orm views
Controller is server.js routes, etc. 
