### Notes
We review an app where you make reservations to sit at a table.
this requires express and path npms.
the app has 3 html pages and paths a homescreen where it shows the name of the restaurant.
a page where you can make a reservation on a form taking in the input.
This one makes a POST to the api which will be running on the 'server'. 
then theres a view reservations page where it uses a GET request to populate the page with reservations and open tables.

### Activity
We split into groups for the activity but I'm a day behind so I'm doing the front end and back end; I like the challenge.
I didn't take notes durring this time to see how far I could get and I was able to copy some HTML from the starwars app and get the front end up rough but quick.
Then I established the  [Server.js](https://github.com/ohmez/ReservationNation/blob/master/server.js) and made sure it was listening and could populate the pages.
I looked over starwars more on their input page and built out the jquery ajax call to POST to an empty array on the server page.
```js

app.post("/tables/api", function (req, res,) {
    var newReservation = req.body;
    newReservation.routeName = newReservation.name.replace(/\s+/g,"").toLowerCase();
    if(activeTables<=4) {
        activeTables++;
        newReservation.table = activeTables;
    } else {
        waitListed++;
        newReservation.table = 'Wait-List: '+ waitListed;
    }
    reservations.push(newReservation);
    res.json(newReservation);
    console.log('then response \n')
        console.log(reservations);
});
```

on this one the routeName isn't really needed but I was thinking if I went fast enough I could make paths for just viewing your reservation.
I didn't have time for this. by the end of class I was able to get reservations working for 5 tables then marking the rest for waitlist.
Making a reservation works and posts to the empty array on server, [list.html](https://github.com/ohmez/ReservationNation/blob/master/list.html) populates all the tables and waitlists.
I didn't get to build the html out more to show 5 tables when the array is empty; I wanted the backend to work more.

